-- Build Out Phase
  - App Build out
  - Inventory Build out
  - eBay Build out

This is the phase where I create the App and start to buy Magic cards in bulk. I'll also be going through my comics and card collection for potential inventory there. I will only be selling on eBay and I'll only be selling bulk overstock of my inventory as it gets pruned. My original plan called for starting a store with $1,000 in retail inventory value but I think this is going to be too low. I think to make an eBay store work you need to post at least the Premium store. My fixed costs budget for a Premium store and all the other items like stamps.com would be about $200 a month.

eBay takes about 16% on top of that $200 and I'll be paying probably close to 50% COGS for my initial inventory as I build it out. If I only sell $100 in a month that's not going to work and that is likely to happen if I only have $1,000 in slow turning inventory. So, I need more inventory before I open the eBay store. That is what this period is going to be about. If I have $5,000 in inventory at retail I have a better chance of covering my costs right away. It will be a little harder to build to this scale but I don't think it will be too bad.

I will be able to feed about $150 into the Magic bulk per month. I'll also be setting up a $500 fund for the Magic Buy List. I think that I'll need to go through 150,000 - 250,000 bulk Magic cards to get about 6 months of inventory for playsets for most of the commons/ uncommons and set collections. About two of each. I'd like to pay $9 per thousands shipped for these cards, so I'm probably looking at $1,350 - $2,250 in bulk. I'll also be buying bulk rares which will be a little more expensive. I'm not sure how many of these I'll actually need. I can start with 1,000 which I can get for about $160 shipped. I'll be using them as bulk bait initially but will have to play with them as buying them and bulking like commons is too expensive for me right now. I can probably sort 50,000 cards a month but I'm not sure I'll be able to do it without going insane. At the same time that I am buying and processing bulk I will be using my $500 inventory fund to get cards and collections from my Buy List. These should be higher value cards and assuming that I get them for 40% COGS or better I should have about $1,200 in inventory at retail in pretty decent cards.

First 90 days:
$160 on bulk rares
$500 on bulk commons/ uncommons
$500 on Buy List

I have the $500 for the Buy List cards in my savings. I can feed in the $700 or so for Bulk gradually, trying to get some money back after sort to use so that I can put the drip money into another area. I won't really get a feel for an inventory value until I get through a lot of these cards. This also all depends on the App.

I need to build out the App to the point that I can list some products on eBay. I've gone over what features that will require quite a bit in other areas so I won't bother repeating myself. I'll be posting bulk on eBay in an effort to get my feedback up as well as to recoup funds to buy more inventory on the race to $5k. At this point my only monthly expenses are going to be stamps.com and biggerbids.com, about $25 per month. At some point I'll add rarityguide.com for $5 a month. The only fixed costs I'm looking at are the $100 or so for BCW, maybe another $50 from eBay for shipping and storage supplies and maybe another $50 for a card table for sorting and packaging and other misc. expenses. I'd also like to get at least one external hard drive for backups which will be about $150. I might also pick up ComicBase, which would be about $100. I might be forgetting about some things like printers but I'll worry about that stuff later.

Totals:
$1,250 for initial inventory
$100 for 3 months of monthly expenses
$500 in fixed costs

$1,850 - $2,000 in start up expenses

Again, some of this is going to be off set by the money I get back bulking out my initial inventory overstock but I don't know how much. I also don't really know how long it will take to get to $5,000 in inventory at retail buying bulk. So, I'll be trying to answer those questions during this stage.

My other limitations are space and time. I don't think time is going to be much of an issue because shipping bulk and fulfilling orders shouldn't be that hard as the volume of orders will be low. Even if I'm blowing out 50,000 cards a month in bulk I'm still looking at 50 - 100 packages a month. I think the bigger challenge for time is going to be tracking down collections and Buy Listing cards, especially if I'm trying to buy in the Seattle area as well. Space shouldn't be too much of an issue for cards either. I can hold at least 50,000 without too much issue at the house and can also store 3,000 comics once I get the DrawerBoxes in for them. In the meantime I'll just use short boxes.

Once I get a couple of orders I'll have what I need to build out the App in terms of customer records, order imports, integration with stamps.com, etc.

-- eBay Store Launch
  - Branding
  - Buy Listing
  -

Once I have my $5,000 in inventory at retail I am going to want to start prepping the eBay store. Better templates, a logo, etc. That might run me another $300 - $500 but will probably pay for itself pretty quickly as the higher professionalism will hopefully make up for my somewhat sorry inventory and the lack of a long eBay track record. At that point I'm ready to launch and will need to set an opening date. I'll also want to have maybe three months of expenses for the store in cash. I think with the Premium store and other expenses I'd be running about $150 a month for expenses so budgeting $200 per month makes sense to me. Altogether I'll call it $1,000 in additional funds to get the store off the ground.

Total expenses so far are about $3,000. Ideally I would like at least another $1,000+ in cash on hand for purchasing but this might not be feasible. Altogether that would be $3,000 - $5,000 to get a reasonable store up on eBay.

This is the point where my business plan begins but I am not an actual business at this point. I won't be until I am about to hit $10,000 in sales within a 12 month period. You have to register your business at $12,000 in gross income per year in Washington State. This will bring a few changes but shouldn't be anything too major. I might have to buy Quickbooks but that would be about it. Based on my rough outline this should take about 9 - 12 months.

Every penny of profit that is made by the store is being reinvested in the company. As a rough guideline 80% of profits will be put back into the inventory fund(s), 10% will go back into marketing and 10% will go back into infrastructure. These are just guides but give an idea.

A major focus after the store is up is going to be on Buy Listing.

I will also be listing certain singles on TCG Player during this time in order to try to build up my reputation on that platform.

-- Year one

Year One will begin when I launch my eBay store. The store will have four card playsets, complete sets of commons/uncommons, etc. as well as cards that are worth selling as singles. I'll be listing comics as well. Most of my bulk will probably be going at auction at this point but all of that will depend on the testing I do with the store. As noted, I'll be putting every penny I can back into the company and in particular into the inventory.

Once I hit the $12k goal I'll need to transform my hobby into an actual business. Again, this should take about a year or so. I'll be working hard to increase the inventory quality during this period as well as getting the App in good shape. I'll be working on adding comics and possibly video games to the app.

I'll also be looking to open up new sales channels. TCG Player, Atomic Avenue, HipComic, Amazon and my own Shopify site are all on my list but not necessarily in that order. Now that I'm looking at it, probably mostly in that order however. This will take work on the App but probably not all that much. The bigger challenge is going to be waiting to get sales and making sure that the App is tracking where everything is listed and where it is sold so that I don't post items that I don't actually have. Listings for items will need to be updated at least every day for every platform.

By adding inventory and by expanding the sales channels I should be able to raise sales.

My baseline figures for Year One say that I'll be spending an average of 5 minutes per order. If my average order is $5 this means that I spend about 50 hours fulfilling those orders. Assuming that I can work 15 hours per week or 60 hours per month you an start to see where my cap is. The stores should be doing about $3,000 a month at this point. I have no idea if the 5 minute figure is correct or not. I'll have to test that. The $5 average order is pretty low and I will really want to focus on increasing that figure by bringing in better stock via Buy Listing and collection hunting.

-- Shopify Launch

By the time I hit the 12k/ Year One mark I want to be prepared to launch my Shopify site. This is at the LATEST. I really want to get Shopify up as soon as possible as I want it to be my main sales platform. I'll probably need to pay someone to reskin the site but I should be able to do the rest of the technical build out myself. Shopify will cost a modest fee each month and there will be other costs like domain name registrations that will be dwarfed with what I'll be spending in terms funds for advertising online.

With the Shopify site I can really start to make some money if I can get my sales anywhere near what they are on the other platforms. I'll be saving anywhere between 5 - 13% on fees when compared to these other platforms. It also allows me to operate more or less as I want without platform restrictions. I'll have a blog and it will give me a place to promote items without having to direct people to eBay.

As with the eBay store I'll want to have several months expenses laid out to cover costs as I get up to speed but I don't think that will be much. Maybe $250? Once I have the inventory up I'll play around with marketing and start really looking at using social media to drive traffic to the store. Shit, selling right from Facebook might be an option.

-- Expansion

Somewhere in Year Two I'm going to hit the ceiling. I'll be trying to drive up the average per item price and the average order value but I'll still be limited by the number of hours I can work. I'll up against space issues as well, but I'll be able to limp along by "sub letting" my personal storage unit space to the company. I'll need to expand.

To this point I should have the ability to spend a couple of thousand dollars a month on inventory. This should be enough to allow me to get better deals from private sellers and allow me to start making deals with other dealers and retailers as well. However, as noted I'll be limited by space issues and I'll probably have some inventory creep going on as I can't list all of my inventory because if I do I will probably have too many orders to fulfill.

This means that during my Year One I need to be saving to hire a part time employee. They only need to work a few hours per week. The irony is that I'll probably have been working on this for over a year to this point and the first person paid out by Dread Pirate Jim's probably won't be me...

In order to have an employee I need to be ready to manage them and I need to have a commercial space. All I need is a couple hundred square feet in an office someplace but I'll need to be careful. I'll be signing a lease and telling someone I can pay them X per week. The office will give me more space, meaning I can fit more of the inventory centrally, and I can put more of it up for sale because I'll have someone working 10 or so hours per week.

The pressure will then be on me to leverage the 40+ hours per month of order fulfillment help I have into increased sales by continuing to expand the inventory and make sure we have what we need to sell.

Paying about $15 per hour means I pay out $900 per month for 40 hours per month by the time I pay payroll taxes, etc. I'll have a service do this even though it's an extra fee. Rent shouldn't be more than $500 per month. This would need to be a max of about 25% of my gross sales each month so I'd need to be selling at least $6,000 per month to break even.

Based on my outline I'd need around $40k in average inventory at retail to make that work at a turn rate of 1.
