The first bulk purchases have been made. Magic cards have been broken down by set and then by card. I have these entered into the App. It's the first of the month. I'm about to start the first quarter of Dread Pirate Jim's.

My calendar goes off on the 1st of the month. I am worried about sales for the 1st Quarter but I am also worried about purchasing for the 2nd Quarter. The App has tables that have various pieces of information from the business plan that will allow reporting. This will include sales goals, COGS goals and an inventory breakdown by price point. Each of the inventory items have a "priority". This will impact the purchasing price for that item. For example, if I have two comics that are both worth $2.00. One is an Amazing Spider-Man and the other is a Nova comic. Spidey is more likely to sell than Nova. Based on the inventory budget for the category I will have a list of items that are "top choice" as well as a list for all supported inventory items which will show buying prices as well. Each item should have a base price which is based on the COGS for the category. Usually this is going to be like 50% by default. A second price will be a max price. This will be the price used in the "top choice" list but the main goal is to show prices that are over the COGS max while I'm building inventory. For example, if I'm building up my inventory of comics worth $20+ retail I might be willing to pay $13 per book rather than $10. The idea is that while I'm looking through collections I can make some notes and reference the buylists. I can also publish the "top choice" list and try to get people to trade and/ or sell to me. This reporting is integrated with my inventory data so that I am also replacing items that are selling well.

The idea is that the App will produce a Buy List that A) maintains the quality and diversity of the inventory B) continually expands qualities from A while increasing the average price point of the inventory. The App should allow me to make smart inventory purchases based on the business plan. I will have a buylist posted on the website and will be publishing buy lists in my area. This is mostly going to be the I-5 corridor from Vancouver to Portland. I'll post my ads on various Facebook groups, CraigsList, etc. I'll be going to buy collections and working to get them online in particularly.

I use the app to enter potential purchase orders when I'm contacted about cards and comics. I'll be trying to buy in bulk from collectors and offering the best deals I can to get inventory from people on forums. The App should allow me to track all of these transactions as well as track how much of the inventory budget that I have/ have spent. Revisions of the of lists should be made every week or second week. This is a rolling schedule. Updates to the business planning tables made monthly will impact the list but this isn't seen by the purchasing side.

I want to have scripts or easy ways to make the posts on these purchasing sites. I want to be able to update HTML and post. Have established procedures to save the files. Use the App.

The purchased inventory arrives. It is broken down by set and then by card or by title and then by issue. Each purchase is kept separate and is labeled with the PO number. The inventory is assigned conditions. These are then recorded into a csv sheet and uploaded into the app. This information will include how much was paid for the collection or card/ comic, etc. This will allow reporting for the higher levels of the business and will hopefully find any "gems" in the collection.

Inventory will controlled on two levels. Items that are considered "evergreen" will be treated as commodities. This might mean that I always buy four or more copies of Amazing Spider-Man 120-145 or alway have four playsets of all commons and uncommon singles for magic. The other level is tracking by individual item. If I have a 9.4 CGC Amazing Spider-Man 23 I am going to want to be able to track that item individually, take pictures, etc. The App will need to support the upload process.

The purchasing and processing is going to be a rolling process. I need to track how many inventory dollars I have and how I am progressing in processing these purchases. This will create an inventory that is "on deck" to be posted. As each collection/ purchase is processed the App will update the purchasing parameters, etc.

The "on deck" inventory can be added to whatever inventory groups that are wanted via the app.

The App will control which items will be posted on which platforms based on inventory "rules" and some configuration settings. For example, I will be selling x4 or 2 x4 common playsets on eBay for $1 but I won't be selling a $0.15 common on eBay. I won't be selling that card on TCGPlayer either, but down the line I will be. I will be selling that card at $0.15 or so on Shopify. I paid $0.006 for it. It's actually worth it if the minimum order is reached. The minimum order doesn't even need to be stated. You can just enforce it via shipping price. These rules will be updated on weekly basis for platforms without listing fees and on whatever the listing fee schedule is for those that do. For example, this is every 30 days for eBay.

The inventory will be updated every time a purcharsed batch is entered into the systsem. The App will also be able to tell how much money I have sitting out there not processed. Pricing, if automated, should be updated weekly. The App will support processes to add more items to the product catalog. That inventory will be posted to a platform for sale by generating a file for import and/ or running a script for upload.

Jim's will be selling on eBay and will then expand to TCGPlayer and Atomic Avenue if I have any decent comic inventory and learn how to grade. The process of growing sales on these two latter platforms will be very slow. For TCGPlayer it will definitely be worth doing. Atomic Avenue will be pursued mostly because I'll have ComicBase and it's easy. I don't expect much. Each of these platforms will have their own sales strategy and rules enforced and applied via the App.

The full Jim's storefront will be implemented via Shopfiy. This will also give me access to Amazon.

This will create an environment where inventory is processed whenever it is processed but I'm assuming a minimum of weekly. These uploads will come daily or after a weekly update for pricing. Shopify/ Amazon will be then be updated via CSV upload. eBay will be updated as well but I have to break down the listing fees. I'm assuming that I'll be updating weekly to restock if nothing else but based on the 30 day listing I'm not sure how that will actually break down. I'm assuming the updates to Shopify will update Amazon as well. Atomic Avenue will be updated whenever I update comic pricing. I'll need to break that down. TCGPlayer will be manual until I'm hitting their higher seller tiers and hooked up with the API. I'll probably need the established Shopify site for that at a minimum along with their sales requirements. If I do have the API set up I could have daily updates for TCGPlayer and daily updates for card pricing on the other sites. ComicBase is updated weekly. If I have a process I could update pricing on comics weekly by running the update through an algorithm.

Each of these processes are related but independent. The problem that I see is that I'll need a server. I can't run all of these scheduled processes on my machine. I need to make the Mac the dev box and figure out how to run this on a server. I would like this to be local. Ask Dave at work about this.

This server will also host the local copies of the product images. The business will need a process for adding to the image library.

So, items are added to Shopify/ Amazon daily or weekly and eBay is dealt with in the way we deal with eBay. Whatever that is. TCGPlayer might be daily. Atomic Avenue would be weekly.

Communication on eBay is handled through GarageSale I think. Shopify might be email based. I'm not sure about Amazon either. TCGPlayer and AA would be their own interfaces. These would all be checked at least daily.

Sales can be exported from eBay and Shopify into CSV. These can then be uploaded into the App. If an API is set up for TCGPlayer I might be able to import orders from them. I doubt I'll be able to do it with AA. That will probably always be manual though I could get a script to import the orders from html or whatever.

Orders would be imported daily @ something like 4PM PST. That way I could come home from work and either run the scripts to get the orders for the day or get the reports for fulfillment. I would hope to script this out but it could also rely on exporting orders manually from all the platforms and importing them into the App. This will probably be the first stage version.

Once all orders were imported a pick list could be generated. The pick list would try to order the products so that I can walk down a row or pull out a series of boxes and get things without going back and forth for items.

With everything picked I can break up items based on orders. The App and/ or PDFs or HTML from the platforms.
