My vision for Jim's is becoming clearer. My ultimate goal is to generate $1 million plus in online, brick and mortar and convention sales. Starting by selling online I will establish Dread Pirate Jim's as destination for Magic: The Gathering players and comic reader/ collectors by selling Magic singles and related items as well as back issue comics. I will likely expand this by adding video games, action figures/ geek collectibles, RPGs, miniatures and board games. I am in no rush to do so but these items will eventually be added. As the online business grows I will prepare to buy and sell at conventions in the Pacific Northwest and along the west coast down the I-5 corridor. This will include building out a "convention store" with fixtures and signage for at least a 10x10 area. If I have the inventory and ability to transport it, a 20x10 or even larger might make sense. This will also call for my first, if temporary, employee(s). Finally, once I am able to raise the funding I will be opening a brick and mortar retail store. The store will be around 2,500 sq. ft. and will carry a full line of comics, graphic novels, collectible games, miniatures, RPGs, board games and vintage video games. A fully mature store should be able to do $250 in sales per square foot annually. A 2500 square foot store should then be capable of $625,000 in sales annually. It could take up to five years for the store to reach that figure, but is not an unreasonable one based on the Mel Thompson data. At that point I would be looking to move to a larger location.

I have no idea what my online sales cap is but looking at Troll & Toad, Mile High Comics, mycomicshop.com and DA Card World I'm not sure that there is one. I suspect that I am going to be more limited online by the ability to get product and the ability to process secondhand products into inventory is going to be the bottle neck online rather than sales. With that said, I do need to treat the online portion of Jim's as its own unique business. Where I would be worried about fixtures, merchandising and displays and whether or not you could see dead flies in the light fixtures of a brick and mortar store, online I'll be worried about whether customers can find what they want on the site easily, if we have what they are looking for and what we can do online to upsell and cross sell. The online portion of the business has the capacity for the fastest and largest amount of growth for the company but it will still be reliant on both the brick and mortar store and convention operation in order to function at max potential.

Until I'm setting up booths at the large national cons I won't be making a lot of money at convention sales. When I am setting up at these cons they are still a minor, if important, part of the business. By the time I was prepared to set up at a place like San Diego Comic Con or Gen Con I would need a large booth, paid staff, real trucking companies, etc. It would be a big deal and it's possible that Jim's could do $100k+ a year by attending a few big shows. In the meantime the focus on conventions is to get new product and to get the brand out in front of people and to talk to them about having a new store in the area. What do they want to see? Or at least, what do they THINK they want to see.

Conventions are going to be big in terms of getting in product for the online store, especially in the first couple of years. Dealers are my best bet for getting product. I have this vision of trying to buy collections from Civilians and it just being a nightmare. Buying in volume from dealers will allow me to grow inventory quickly at a lower efficiency while I try buylisting other items and buying private collections in order to improve the dollar value and the quality of the inventory.

Though it isn't going to be a lot of money in the early stages, selling at smaller cons will earn much needed cash for the business, turn some product and will allow me to start practicing sales with live people, creating displays, etc. This is going to be really important experience when opening the store even if I am able to get a good manager to run the day to day operations.

***

The online portion of the business will be planned to earn just as much as the brick and mortar store. The online store will be fueled mostly by secondary market items but will integrate with the brick and mortar store once we are able to open and gain access to the industries full product selection. Until I open the brick and mortar Jim's will have limited access to new product from Alliance/ Diamond, Asmodee, etc. Even after the company has access to product that is (supposed to be) limited to brick and mortar I am not going to count on this. New comics, boxes of Magic: The Gathernig, Games Workshop and new board game and RPG releases are all available online and increasingly through mass market. They are sold online at a discount and percentage discounting isn't something that I want to do in my retail stores. New product on the site will be for people with some kind of association with the store. I won't be pricing boxes of Magic at $110 or whatever the MSRP is, but I'll be putting them up for $100 or whatever and selling them online for the same. If I get sales, great. If not that is fine too as I'll be pushing out as many cards as possible via the brick and mortar store.

Beyond gross sales the goal of the online store is to shop high dollar collectibles and to lower the company's overall COGS to something around 50%. Sales velocity (turns) will likely be higher in the brick and mortar while the average margin for the online sales will be very high but the turns will be low. If the sales from each are about the same or the online store has significantly higher gross sales they should lead to a lowering of the 60% or so COGS paid by the brick and mortar to something around 50-55%. This means that the online portion of the business is going to need to do $625k+ on its own. To do that much volume the online division will need to be run just as professionally as the brick and mortar store. You can't sell $625k of Magic singles out of your bedroom.

I haven't worked out all of the details for the online division but I do have some basic numbers that show that I might be able to reach about half of the $50k in sales per month online needed for $625k annually in about two years. This would require staff and a commercial location. I need to break out plans for how much inventory can be stored in a 250 sq ft office, a 500 and a 1000 square foot industrial condo space. Break it down just like fixtures in a store. At this point I'll still be running the business part time and working full time as well, trying to get enough money together to go full time on the online side of the business. If I'm able to get a commercial space up along with the staff to process orders so I can grade and focus on getting more stuff I might not be far away from that.

***

-- Online launch (M:TG singles and some comics)
  - Build Out
The App needs to be able to handle purchasing, processing, pricing and posting M:TG products to eBay. This includes having all the data for an initial price, images, templates for eBay listings, etc. Will also need to lay out processes and procedures for working with the App as a lot of this is going to be manually driven, based on CSV import/export, etc.

Go for minimum viable product.

  - Soft Launch
eBay and TCG Player are going to restrict my listings until I meet some prerequisites. Expect at least 90 days from the date of my first positive feedback on eBay. I hope to make it shorter, but can't count on it. In meantime use the time to build out features of the App, get logos and improve templates, etc. See earlier screed.

I'll be selling bulk on eBay until I can get ability to list over 50 items and can use File Exchange. I really don't want to develop a second solution for eBay if I don't have to.

I won't have an eBay store or anything at this point. I will have stamps.com which is about $15 a month and I might subscribe to rarirtyguide.com for about $5 a month as well. BiggerBids will be about $10 a month. I won't have a logo or will only have a simple text logo at this point that I pay like $20 for. I'll budget $50 per month.

  - M:TG Inventory build out
I'll be ordering bulk commons and rares and sorting out to build an inventory. I need a couple of playsets for each card and a couple of playsets for each set. 3-6 months of estimated inventory I would think? Rinse and repeat. Do the bulk selling tests. See how fast you can clear out extra stock. Purchase more bulk accordingly. The goal is to build out the inventory with as many unique items as possible. I won't stock them deeply because they should be easy to get. There are over 30,000 individual cards. Maybe 15% of these are considered "valuable"? I'll have a better sense once I get the app built out a little bit and can run some data. If I'm looking for maybe 4 sets of each common/uncommon/bulk rare than I should have six months of inventory after going through maybe 120,000 cards. That definitely won't be the reality and that'll probably be more like 150,000 - 250,000 cards. Paying anything under $9/ thousand shipped is a good deal. Altogether this will cost anywhere from $1,350 - $2,250. 

In addition to the bulk build out (designed to give me a great selection of admittedly shit cards) I'll be posting a buylist online. Craigslist and Facebook are the obvious choices. I won't do local but will probably post in Seattle. I might post buy ads locally but not sell ads now that I think about it. The goal with this will be to get higher value cards that are worth $1+ as true singles. These go in top loaders. I'll pay a max of 40% of my retail for the vast majority of cards on the list and most of them I will pay around 20% for. Buy prices on items that I actually do want should be very competitive with the larger dealers. The goal is to build out $1 - $5 dollar cards and then move to $5 - $10, etc. by offering good prices. I won't be able to control what cards I'm getting completely but I can incentivize.

For both of these drives I'm going to need a fund. The latter will start out with $500 to buy collections/ cards online or from locals. The bulk will be done in smaller increments I think I can get bulk commons and rares for something around $225 shipped for 6,000 commons and 1,000 rares. At that point I'll probably just feed in what I can until the line is built out. If I get my tax return I'll be able to put something towards it. In that instance it might be worth calling some of the big retailers in Seattle or the one in Vancouver about going down for a bulk deal of 100,000 cards or whatever. Getting off track.

I need to order some supplies from BCW and work with some of the items that I already have but generally speaking that's all I have to worry about for the inventory side initially. I'll mostly be buying cardboard from them and then buying team bags and other things on eBay to get my feedback score up. I expect to spend about $100 with BCW and maybe $50 on eBay.

As I'm trying to build up my reputation on eBay and TCG Player I will be working on building out the App. When I get my first orders from eBay I'll be able to test their export function and I think I can get sales data from File Exchange as well. Order processing, shipping support, customer records and reporting from the App is all going to be on the list. I'll need basic versions of all of them before I kick off the eBay store.

-- eBay Launch
I should have sold some cards on eBay by now and established myself a little bit. I've been buying things as well so my feedback is over 20. I've gone through quite a bit of bulk and have managed to get some decent cards in. My stock is still pretty sad but I can post $1,000 in retail value within my financial guidelines. I might have even sold some cards on TCG Player. I'm ready to open the store on eBay.

It will probably be worth spending $150 to get a half way professional logo and maybe another $150 for a custom store and auction template. I don't necessarily need to do either right away, but I think they would rather quickly pay for themselves in sales given that my feedback will still be relatively low. Establishing myself with a professional appearance will also somewhat offset my kind of crap inventory. I don't want to look like a garage sale.

I'll have had probably 90 days to purchase and process bulk. I think I can do at least 5,000 cards a week in terms of sorting but I don't know how quickly I'll be able to buy bulk given that most of my inventory dollars are going to buying singles, but I can give plasma or something and get a couple hundred dollars a month for bulk.

I'll be paying $25 per month for my eBay store initially and will have 250 fixed price and 250 auction listings for free. After that it will be $0.20 per fixed price listing. Final value fees are going up to 9.15% from 9% on May 1, 2017, so that is the figure I should use moving forward. A Premium store is $75 per month but gives 1,000 fixed price listings, 500 auction listings and lowers the fixed price listing fee beyond the freebies to $0.10. The $50 difference is paid for once I have 500 items to list as fixed price. It might make sense to open up with the Premium store if I'm allowed to by eBay.

My costs at this point are something like this:

$45 per month for stamps.com, rarityguide.com, ComicBase, BiggerBids
$20 per month for github, jira and evernote subscriptions
$75 per month for eBay store
Total: $150 per month

$150 for logo design
$150 for template design
$500 for M:TG collection purchases
$500 or so spent on M:TG bulk
$150 or so spent on M:TG packaging/ storage
$50 or so spent on shipping supplies (?)
$200 or so spent on two external drives to store backups of the App as well as copies of images
Total: $1,700 in start up costs

At this point I'll need about $200 per month to cover expenses. I'll probably have spent about $500 in monthly fees and such during the soft launch. I'll have spent anywhere from $1,000 to $2,000 in fixed costs in getting to this point. $1,500 - $2,500 total investment at this point.

I think I'll have been able to get through at least 50,000 bulk commons from the soft launch to the eBay store launch. I'll also have spent $500 or so on collections/ buy list cards so I should have over $1,000 in inventory just from that. This combined with the playset inventory should give me $1,000+ in inventory which will also be backed by whatever items from my existing collection can be listed. I should have all of this in place before I start the store.

From here I need to follow the business plan and keep putting dollars into the category and getting better cards. If purchasing is slow I can start to focus more on other categories. I hope to take any of the money that I make off of my existing collection and put that into the start of a comic inventory fund.

I'll also be selling on TCG Player during this period. I think cards that are $3 or more would probably work but I'll need to run the numbers on that platform. I'll be selling single cards here, not worrying about sets (at least initially) but using it as a place to list a full inventory of singles, including commons and uncommons. They might only sell for $0.15 but as add on purchases they are awesome. The thing is that I'll need to have a lot of cards that are worth something as well as good shipping policies to make sure that they are being bought as add ons and I don't get stuck mailing out a bunch of $0.45 cent orders. At this point I'll have a full M:TG product line, though on different platforms.

I don't expect the sales to pay for the $200 a month so it might make sense to start as a small store and build up some feedback for a bit. I need at least a $1,000 per month in sales to cover that amount of fixed expense. I don't have that projected on my sales chart until Month 8. This might indicate that the build out period before the soft launch needs to be extended and more inventory accumulated. Based on my outline I'd need maybe $5k - $7k in inventory value to have a shot at the $1,000 figure. I'd definitely need a higher eBay reputation.

-- App Build Out, Inventory Expansion and Shopify Prep
